New page: aria-modal (#12559)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/accessibility/aria/attributes/aria-modal/index.md

---
title: 'aria-modal'
slug: Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-modal
tags: 
  - Accessibility
  - ARIA
  - ARIA attribute
  - ARIA property
  - aria-modal
  - Reference
---

> The `aria-modal` attribute indicates whether an element is modal when displayed. When an element is modal, navigation is limited to the modal itself and the background (the ancestors and siblings of the modal) is hidden.

Reviewer: >navigation is limited to the modal itself
This sentence implies `aria-modal` will take care of that, which it will not. Also, what about non-modal dialog? Can we update this to be a little clearer?

Author: I removed the details from the summary line, and made in much clearer in paragraph 2 and 3 of the description section.

## Description

Setting `aria-modal="true"`on `dialog` and `alertdialog` containers indicates the presence of a "modal" element, letting the user know the ability to interact with, or access other content on the page requires the modal dialog to be closed or otherwise lose focus. 

Modal dialogs are when content is displayed and the user's interaction is limited to only that section until it is dismissed. 

> When creating modal dialogs, `aria-modal="true"` tells assistive technologies that the windows underneath the current dialog are not exposed or available for interaction; that they are inert. User navigation is limited to the modal elements itself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating modal dialogs, `aria-modal="true"` tells assistive technologies that the windows underneath the current dialog are not part of the modal content.
```

Removing the bits about inert and navigation restriction, as the author still needs to do this.

> When a modal element is displayed, focus is placed in the modal. Assistive technology (<abbr>AT</abbr>) navigates the modal's content (unless focus has explicitly been set elsewhere). Focus is essentialled "trapped" inside the modal when it's visible, until is is dismissed. The `aria-modal` attribute helps AT communicate the bounds of the modal and distinguishes it from the rest of the page's content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a modal element is displayed, focus should be placed in the modal. Focus needs to be "trapped" inside the modal when it is visible, until is is dismissed. Assistive technology (<abbr>AT</abbr>) can then navigate the modal's content and understand the scope of the modal's content. `aria-modal` attribute helps AT communicate the bounds of the modal and distinguishes it from the rest of the page's content. When dismissed, focus should return to the element that triggered the modal.
```

Reworked this to better communicate how `aria-modal` factors in, the author's responsibilities, and focus behavior.

Ensure the modal is controllable using only its descendant elements. If a modal dialog has a close button, the button should be a descendant contained with the modal container in the DOM. 

> When a modal element is displayed, authors <strong>should</strong> mark all other contents as inert (such as "inert subtrees" in HTML). The [`inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/inert) attribute is a boolean attribute that indicates, by its presence, that the element and all its shadow-including descendants is to be made inert.

Reviewer: `inert` is not ready for use yet. Can we rewrite this?

Author: rewritten!

> When supported, inluding `aria-modal="true"` on a [`dialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/dialog_role) or [`alertdialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/alertdialog_role), removes the requirement of putting [`aria-hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-hidden) on background content as the `aria-modal` informs assistive technologies that content outside a dialog is inert. Setting `aria-hidden` on all content outside a dialog to make it inert for AT users is still an option, but no longer required. 

Reviewer: I believe you still need to use `aria-hidden` to suppress caret browsing.

Author: removed

Modal dialogs are when content is displayed and the user's interaction is limited to only that section until it is dismissed.

When creating modal dialogs, aria-modal="true" tells assistive technologies that the windows underneath the current dialog are not part of the modal content.

When a modal element is displayed, focus should be placed in the modal. Focus needs to be "trapped" inside the modal when it is visible, until is is dismissed. Assistive technology (<abbr>AT</abbr>) can then navigate the modal's content and understand the scope of the modal's content. `aria-modal` attribute helps AT communicate the bounds of the modal and distinguishes it from the rest of the page's content. When dismissed, focus should return to the element that triggered the modal.

Ensure the modal is controllable using only its descendant elements. If a modal dialog has a close button, the button should be a descendant contained with the modal container in the DOM. 

> When a modal element is displayed, authors **should** mark all other contents as inert (such as "inert subtrees" in HTML). There is an [`inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/inert) attribute that, when supported, will be a boolean attribute that indicates, by its presence, that the element and all its shadow-including descendants is to be made inert. Until `inert` is fully supported, all other content should be [made inert using JavaScript](https://whistlr.info/2021/inert/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a modal element is displayed, authors **should** mark all other contents as inert (such as "inert subtrees" in HTML). Disabled content is not inert content. Inert content cannot be interacted with using both normal and specialized browsing modes such as caret browsing, which allow an assistive technology user to explore a page in detail. This includes disabled content, whose content may provide meaning.

There is an [`inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/inert) attribute that, when supported, will be a boolean attribute that indicates, by its presence, that the element and all its shadow-including descendants is to be made inert. Until `inert` is fully supported, all other content should be [made inert using JavaScript](https://whistlr.info/2021/inert/). 
```

       aria-modal="true"
       aria-labelledby="dialog_label"
       aria-describedby="dialog_desc">
    <h2 id="dialog_label">
      Confirmation
    </h2>
    <div id="dialog_desc">
      <p>
        Are you sure you want to delete this file?
      </p>
    </div>
    <button type="button" onclick="closeDialog(this)">
      No. Close this popup.
    </button>
    <button type="button" onclick="deleteFile(this)">
      Yes. Delete the file.
    </button>
  </div>
</div>
```

This partial example includes an `alertdialog` nested in a full-screen, non-scrollable backdrop. 

The [`role="alertdialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/alertdialog_role)	identifies the element that serves as the alert dialog container. The [`aria-labelledby`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-labelledby) provides the alert dialog an accessible name by referring to the element that provides the alert dialog title. The [`aria-describedby`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-describedby) attribute gives the alert dialog an accessible description by referring to the alert dialog content that describes the primary message or purpose of the alert dialog.

> The `aria-modal="true"`	informs the assistive technology user that the content underneath the dialog is not interactive so long as the alertdialog has focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `aria-modal="true"`	informs the assistive technology user that the content underneath the dialog is not interactive so long as the element with a declaration of `role="alertdialog"` has focus.
```

---
title: 'aria-modal'
slug: Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-modal
tags: 
  - Accessibility
  - ARIA
  - ARIA attribute
  - ARIA property
  - aria-modal
  - Reference
---

The `aria-modal` attribute indicates whether an element is modal when displayed. 

## Description

A section of content is "modal" means navigation is limited to the area itself and the background (the ancestors and siblings of the modal) is hidden. Setting `aria-modal="true"` on [`dialog`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/dialog_role) and [`alertdialog` role](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/alertdialog_role) containers indicates the presence of a "modal" element to users of assistive technology, but does not actually make the element modal. The features that make the element actually modal must be implemented by the developer. 

> **Note:** ARIA only modifies the accessibility tree, modifying how assistive technology presents the content to your users. ARIA doesn't change anything about an element's function or behavior. To create a modal effect you must use JavaScript to manage behavior, focus, and ARIA states.

> Relevant only on `dialog` and `alertdialog` containers, setting `aria-modal="true"` tells assistive technologies to  let the user know the ability to interact with, or access other content on the page requires the modal dialog to be closed or otherwise lose focus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Relevant only on `dialog` and `alertdialog` containers, setting `aria-modal="true"` tells assistive technologies to let the user know the ability to interact with, or access other content on the page requires the modal dialog to be closed or otherwise lose focus.
```

Modal dialogs are when content is displayed and the user's interaction is limited to only that section until it is dismissed.

When creating modal dialogs, `aria-modal="true"` tells assistive technologies that the windows underneath the current dialog are not part of the modal content.

> When a modal element is displayed, focus should be placed in the modal. Focus needs to be "trapped" inside the modal when it is visible, until is is dismissed. Assistive technology (<abbr>AT</abbr>) can then navigate the modal's content and understand the scope of the modal's content. `aria-modal` attribute helps AT communicate the bounds of the modal and distinguishes it from the rest of the page's content. When dismissed, focus should return to the element that triggered the modal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a modal element is displayed, focus should be placed in the modal. Focus needs to be "trapped" inside the modal when it is visible, until it is dismissed. Assistive technology (<abbr>AT</abbr>) can then navigate the modal's content and understand the scope of the modal's content. The `aria-modal` attribute helps AT communicate the bounds of the modal and distinguishes it from the rest of the page's content. When dismissed, focus should return to the element that triggered the modal.
```

Ensure the modal is controllable using only its descendant elements. If a modal dialog has a close button, the button should be a descendant contained with the modal container in the DOM. 

When a modal element is displayed, authors **should** mark all other contents as inert (such as "inert subtrees" in HTML). Disabled content is not inert content. Inert content cannot be interacted with using both normal and specialized browsing modes such as caret browsing, which allow an assistive technology user to explore a page in detail. This includes disabled content, whose content may provide meaning.

There is an [`inert`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/inert) attribute that, when supported, will be a boolean attribute that indicates, by its presence, that the element and all its shadow-including descendants is to be made inert. Until `inert` is fully supported, all other content should be [made inert using JavaScript](https://whistlr.info/2021/inert/). 

> When supported, inluding `aria-modal="true"` on a [`dialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/dialog_role) or [`alertdialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/alertdialog_role), removes the requirement of putting [`aria-hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-hidden) on background content as the `aria-modal` informs assistive technologies that content outside a dialog is inert. Note that there are still compatibility issues for the `dialog` element, so using it in production is not recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When supported, including `aria-modal="true"` on a [`dialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/dialog_role) or [`alertdialog"`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Roles/alertdialog_role), removes the requirement of putting [`aria-hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-hidden) on background content, as the `aria-modal` informs assistive technologies that content outside a dialog is inert. Note that there are still compatibility issues for the `dialog` element, so using it in production is not recommended.
```

If a dialog is not modal -- there is no inert background and focus isn't confined to the dialog -- either include `aria-modal="false"` or omit the attribute altogether. 

## Example

```html

<div id="backdrop" class="no-scroll">
  <div role="alertdialog"
       aria-modal="true"
       aria-labelledby="dialog_label"
       aria-describedby="dialog_desc">
    <h2 id="dialog_label">
      Confirmation
    </h2>

>     <div id="dialog_desc">

Reviewer: I'm unsure about this pattern. This works for simple prompt, but may be far too verbose for a modal with longer content. I worry that nuance would be lost on a dev in its current state.

Author: Which part? The section links to aria-labelledby and aria-describedby, so I am not worried about either of those. Is the a reason `aria-modal` can't be used with longer content?
